Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language that is platform-independent due to the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
JAVAC : Javac is a compiler of Java which is present in the JDK (Java Development Kit), Javac compiler is used to compile the java programs.
JRE : Java Runtime Environment : It is used to run the Java programs. It consists of libraries and components of java.
JDK : Java Development Kit : It is a type of java development tools kit which is used to create the java applications and tools.
JVM : Java Virtual Machine : It is used to run the compiled byte code files and used to convert the byte code file into machine level code i.e. 0 and 1.
The extension of java is .java and when we create any program in java, it is stored with a name of .java file and after compilation, it is converted into a .class file which is a byte code file.
JAVA is an independent language because of its byte code and a .class file.
The two differences between an interpreter and a compiler are :
1) The first is in interpreter, the code is read line by line and then compile it... whereas in compiler, it compiles the whole code at once.
2) The interpreter finds the error in every one line of the code but whereas on the other hand, the compiler shows all the errors at once!
jvm is present in jre (java runtime environment)
javac compiler is present in JDK KIT.
jit (Just In time) presents in jvm environment and it helps in optimising the jaava program.
The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the performance of Java™ applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.
Java was first released in 1995, with development beginning in 1991 at Sun Microsystems. 
DATA TYPES IN JAVA :
1) Primitive : (any data type which object cannot be made is called primitive data type)
int ;float ; double ; char
2) Non-primitive: ( any data type which object can be made is called non-primitive data type)
array; string .
(*) BOXING AND UNBOXING :
(*) SIZE OF DATA TYPES IN TERMS OF MEMORY.
Ques : I have a data type abc, how can i define it as primitive or non primitive??
How will i check it?
Ques: Which is the smallest data type in terms of memory and which is the largest ?
/* CLASS NAME ALWAYS STARTS WITH CAPITAL LETTERS */
public class MyClass {
   int b; //this var is inside class, so this is instance variable
    static int s; //this can be accessed anywhere inside the class.
    //Moreover, when we write static infront of any var, it is named as static var
    void m1(){
        System.out.println(a);
        System.out.println(b);
        System.out.println(s);
    }
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
        int a; //this variable is inside the main method, therefore, this is local variable
        System.out.println(s);
    }
}
command to check that the git repo is connected to the main folder or not,
 (git remote -v)
 OUTPUT : origin  https://github.com/Yashikataneja/Bridgelab (fetch)
          origin  https://github.com/Yashikataneja/Bridgelab (push)
TYPES OF VARIABLE ARE :
1) LOCAL  : THEY ARE ACCESSED INSIDE THE METHODS ONLY ; Local variables must be initialized before they can be used
2) INSTANCE : THEY AREACCESSED INSIDE THE CLASS ONLY ; Instance variables are created when an object is instantiated, and are accessible to all the constructors, methods, or blocks in the class.
3) STATIC  : Static variables are accessed through the class they belong to, they are declared using the static keyword, it can be accessed anywhere from static or from non static method.
(CLASS NAME ALWAYS STARTS WITH UPPERCASE LETTERS AND METHODS NAME WITH LOWERCASE LETTERS.)
main method is run by JVM.
//String input=sc.nextLine();
        the above line of code in which I have written nextLine(), that is why it is giving the string type
        input.
//int  input=sc.nextInt();
    in the same manner, if i want to take the integer as an input, i will use the above code line for it.
